leapctl(8) -- Administrative utility for privleap
=============================================

<!--
# copyright (c) 2025 - 2025 encrypted support llc <adrelanos@whonix.org>
# see the file copying for copying conditions.
-->

## SYNOPSIS
`leapctl (--create|--destroy) username|uid`

## DESCRIPTION
Provides administrative controls for privleap. Right now this is only used to
open and close sockets used to allow individual user accounts to communicate
with the privleapd server.

You usually will not need to run this directly - if `privleap` was installed
from your distribution's repository, it should be pre-configured to create and
destroy user communication sockets on user login and logout.

## OPTIONS

* `--create` :
  Instructs privleapd to create a communication socket for the specified user.
  This will allow the user to communicate with privleapd and request
  privileged operations to be run.

* `--destroy` :
  Instructs privleapd to destroy a communication socket for the specified
  user. This will prevent the user from communicating with privleapd any
  further.

## ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.

## CONFIG FILES
See privleap-conf.d(5).

## EXIT CODES
0: The requested operation was successful, or did not need to be done.

1: The requested operation failed.

## EXAMPLES
Create a communication socket for user `user`:

`leapctl --create user`

Destroy a communication socket for the user with UID 1001:

`leapctl --destroy 1001`

## NOTES
leapctl communicates with privleapd using a UNIX socket that by default can only
be read from and written to by `root`. You will therefore usually have to run
leapctl as root for it to work.

## WWW
https://github.com/Kicksecure/privleap

## AUTHOR
This man page has been written by Aaron Rainbolt (arraybolt3@ubuntu.com).