privleapd(1) -- privleap backend server
=============================================

<!--
# copyright (c) 2025 - 2025 encrypted support llc <adrelanos@whonix.org>
# see the file copying for copying conditions.
-->

## SYNOPSIS
`privleapd [-C|--check-config] [-h|--help|-?]`

## DESCRIPTION
The backend server for privleap. Runs predefined code snippets as root when
requested by an authorized client. privleapd listens for connections on UNIX
sockets under `/run/privleapd`, it does not send or receive information over a
network.

You usually will not need to run this directly - if `privleap` was installed
from your distribution's repository, it should be pre-configured to start on
boot. The one time you usually will want to run it is when ensuring that all
configuration is valid before restarting privleapd.

## OPTIONS

* `-C`, `--check-config` :
  Checks to ensure the privleap configuration is valid, then outputs a short
  report and exits.
* `-h`, `--help`, `-?` :
  Prints usage information.

## ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
None.

## CONFIG FILES
See privleap-conf.d(5).

## EXIT CODES
0: A config check succeeded.

1: A config check failed, or privleapd crashed.

Note that privleapd will usually not exit at all, as it is designed to run
continuously in the background.

## EXAMPLES
Check to ensure privleap configuration is valid:

`privleapd -C`

Restart privleapd to load new configuration files:

`systemctl restart privleapd.service`

## WWW
https://github.com/Kicksecure/privleap

## AUTHOR
This man page has been written by Aaron Rainbolt (arraybolt3@ubuntu.com).
